---
layout: post
title: "Blog: Update, C++ and some other reviews"
categories: blog
---

Lately I've been trying out some new programming languages, APIs and systems,
Imma share a few thoughts on those I think,
I've explored enough to talk about.

DawnStorm: I can't get myself to finish writing the abilities,
It's basically the last thing before the rulebook is done.
Also, I decided to try out organizing the setting in a wiki.

Let's see how my view will shift in the future.
> Note, I'm a hobbyist, I have no professional experience, I'm just talking from my little projects

## C++

So, I recently started learning C and C++ since a
few programming competitions assume code is written in C/C++,
otherwise the problems might even be unsolvable with full points for time.

I must say, C++ is such a beautiful language,
when people talked about C, I got a completely different idea of what it really is.
C++ is a nice language, with all the features I could want,
at least as far as I'm concerned for now,
I don't know how I survived without pointers.
Mainly thanks to the STL, which I tried to avoid in the beginning to get the raw experience.
There's no problem with using the basic types, however with anything bigger,
you always find something that evaded your problem-prevention efforts.
That's what it was, just hunting for solutions, most of which the STL just straight up presents on a silver platter.
> CXX>C++

## Python

Python is an extremely sleek language, however I have a few enormous issues.
Mainly the types.
I am biased against dynamically typed languages,
there's no denying it, but absolutely nothing even in terms of returns in functions is too much.
Yes, there are many ways to try preventing problems here, but I like my solutions to common problems to be defaults.
The last thing is that it's just hard to debug in my opinion.

## Go

It's preachy, it's quick, i'd call it something I'd want Python to be.
GoLang lies close to my heart, I'm not even sure why.
A few design decisions here and there,
like:

- returning success/failure from functions as a bool directly
- omitting semicolons for newlines
- dynamic types only when you want them
- modules as directories
- the automatic dependency from repo system

Each of these is of course debatable on its nature as a pro or con,
but that's basically why we have so many languages.
On top of all that it compiles to a binary, which I find pleasing.
And there is some level of integration with C libraries, which is always a plus.

## C\#

I haven't touched C# for almost a half a year now,
I don't have much to say about it,
I don't remember anything I miss about it.
Except for the fact that defining more complex data structures,
was significantly more convenient than C++ with it's include cycles
(although that is partly my fault).
I know that today it's not much of a problem,
but I slightly disfavour languages that require a runtime.

## TypeScript

I have yet to find a disadvntage.

## OpenGL

Fun... umm

## Other things to check out

- MediaWiki
- FireBase
- GCP - they don't limit the bills those...
- Angular
