---
layout: post
title: "Blog: Steve Jackson's Sorcery!"
categories: blog
---

If you have never played SJ's Sorcery!
(yes, it includes the exclamation point, cause it's 1983)
you should check it out, literally just go now,
go download the books on your phone for a rainy day.

When I was little, our school library used to have many GameBooks,
which I devoured one after the other,
almost as fast as the monsters within devoured my characters.
It is something that I thought everyone knew,
however it seems not many people really read these kinds of books.

Next to D&D this is my favorite way to experience stories,
since:

1. You really have a feeling that this is your story. (even if it isn't)
2. They are usually written or inspired by the classical fantasy books.

I love the way how Sorcery! puts you in the boots of a weak/insignificant character.
Just, getting robbed and just about scraping by to get food for the next day of travel,
is a well rest from the power fantasy that most modern RPGs offer.
Since the puzzles must be solved by the player themselves,
this makes a lot of sense.
And the book is worth it, even if you plan to skip all the fights and mechanics,
which just proves how well the story and encounters are made.

Besides, the PC Games and the books are very similar,
but just different enough for them to even be surprising experienced back to back.
And they're quite frickin' long, with replay, definitely a few full days of content.

> Btw, If you want to return to a specific event in the book, just go by the pictures.
